Document qbd certificate update (#539)
codatio/codat-docs: docs/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/certificate-update.md

---
title: "QuickBooks Desktop - Certificate Update"
description: "Action Required - Certificate Update"
sidebar_label: "Action Required - Certificate Update"
---

# ⚠️ Action Required - QuickBooks Desktop Connector Certificate Update ⚠️
 The certificate used to sign Codat's QuickBooks Desktop connector will be expiring on Wednesday the 16th of August, 2023.

To ensure the QuickBooks Desktop Connector can continue to operate successfully on user machines, Codat will shortly be updating the certificate used to sign the Installer, Connector and UI.

This will, unfortunately, require manual intervention from end users of the Codat QuickBooks Desktop Connector to re-authorize the application to access the connected QuickBooks Desktop company file.

> ## Background

Reviewer: Don't think it's necessary to provide this much context

---
title: "QuickBooks Desktop - Certificate Update"
description: "Action Required - Certificate Update"

> sidebar_label: "Action Required - Certificate Update"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---

# ⚠️ Action Required - QuickBooks Desktop Connector Certificate Update ⚠️
 The certificate used to sign Codat's QuickBooks Desktop connector will be expiring on Wednesday the 16th of August, 2023.

> To ensure the QuickBooks Desktop Connector can continue to operate successfully on user machines, Codat will shortly be updating the certificate used to sign the Installer, Connector and UI.

Author: The old oxford comma...

> This will, unfortunately, require manual intervention from end users of the Codat QuickBooks Desktop Connector to re-authorize the application to access the connected QuickBooks Desktop company file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will require manual intervention from end users (your customers) of the Codat QuickBooks Desktop Connector to re-authorize the application to access the connected QuickBooks Desktop company file.
```

## Background

With the rise of malware, desktop applications are typically *signed* with a certificate issued by a suitable authority, which serves to verify the identity of the authors of an application. These certificates have a validity window, and Codat's certificate's validity will be expiring soon.

> When an integrated application attempts to retrieve data from a company file, QuickBooks validates the certificate to ensure that the application has been granted the appropriate level of access by a suitably permissioned user.

Author: This is a key piece of context - and is the only reason we have to announce this change. We have already update `sage50` to use the new code signing certificate.
Without this, there's no real justification for the impact we're going to impose on our clients, and their customers.

> As Codat is being issued with a new certificate, QuickBooks will no longer recognize the Connector, and will prompt the user to approve the connection to the company file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Codat is being issued with a new certificate, but existing installed Connectors will no longer be recognized, causing QuickBooks to will prompt the user to approve the connection to the company file.
```

> The settings can be found under the `Edit > Preferences > Integrated Applications > Company Preferences` modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/edit-preferences.png "Edit Preferences")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/integrated-applications-modal-personal-preferences.png "My Preferences")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/integrated-applications-modal-company-preferences.png "Company Preferences")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: By default the modal opens on the `Personal Preferences`, and I think it's best to show the entire set of screens they will have to navigate through as these may not be familiar to accountants.

## What does this look like for an end user?

There are several possible scenarios to consider, depending on the workflow of the end user of the Connector.

### 1. New users

There will be no change in the flow for onboarding new companies.

### 2 Existing Users

#### 2.1 The QuickBooks Desktop application is open with the connected company file

> The simplest path is when the QuickBooks Desktop application is running and the company file the connector is attempting to access is open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the QBD application is running and the company file is open, QuickBooks will request the end user to permit the connector to access the data again the next time that connector attempts to access the file.
```

> The next time the connector attempts to access the file, QuickBooks will open a prompt for the end user to permit the connector to access the data again. This prompt is identical to the one seen on initial link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This prompt is identical to the one seen on the initial link.
```

![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/application-certificate-approval.png "Application Certificate Approval")

> The user will then have to decide on what type of access they would like to grant the connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user will have to decide on the type of access they would like to grant the connector.
```

![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/authorize-whilst-closed.png "Authorized Whilst Closed")

> Having made this selection, they will need to confirm they are happy for the connector to have access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, they will need to confirm they are happy for the connector to have access to the company file.
```

![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/confirm-access.png "Confirm Access")

> Once approved the connector can then access the company file as before and no further action is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once approved, the connector will be able to access the company file as before, and no further action will be required.
```

> #### 2.2 The QuickBooks Desktop application is open with a different company file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 2. The QuickBooks Desktop application is open with a different company file
```

> Another probable path for multi-company set ups is when the QuickBooks Desktop application is open, but the connector is trying to access a different company file to the one that is currently open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For multi-company setups, it's possible that the connector will try to access a different company file to the one that is currently open in the QuickBooks Desktop application.
```

> The next time the connector attempts to access the file, QuickBooks will open a prompt for the user to interact with to approve access for the company for the currently open company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next time the connector attempts to access the file, QuickBooks will request the user to interact to approve access for the company that is currently open.
```

> At this stage it would be best if the end user validated that the pop-up was referring to the company that they are expecting to have connected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The end user should validate that the pop-up is referring to the company they are expecting to have connected before approving.
```

![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/application-certificate-approval-incorrect-company.png "Application Certificate Approval, Incorrect Company Open")

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### 3. The QuickBooks Desktop application is closed

If the connector attempts to access the company file when the QBD application is closed, it will display an error message saying `Timed out attempting to communicate with QBD.` 

The connector cannot initiate communication with QBD when it is closed, and any previously granted permissions to access QBD while it is not running do not transfer to the new certificate.
![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/timed-out.png "Timed Out")

The user needs to launch the QBD application, open the correct company file, and [approve the connector's access to it](/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/certificate-update#1-the-quickbooks-desktop-application-is-open-with-the-connected-company-file).

The approval prompt may take a few moments to appear, but can be manually triggered by clicking the `Perform Sync` button in the Connector UI.
```

> ###### 2.2.1 Incorrectly approving access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Troubleshooting

#### Managing existing connections

The end user may choose to remove the existing application signed with the old certificate before or after approving the new certificate request. They can do so by navigating to `Edit > Preferences > Integrated Applications > Company Preferences`  in the QuickBooks Desktop application.
![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/edit-preferences.png "Edit Preferences")
![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/integrated-applications-modal-personal-preferences.png "My Preferences")
![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/integrated-applications-modal-company-preferences.png "Company Preferences")

#### Incorrectly approved access
```

> If the user incorrectly approves access, the connector will identify this and fail to perform the queued operation and instead show a message indicating that the incorrect company file is open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user incorrectly approves access, the connector will fail to perform the queued operation and show a message indicating that the incorrect company file is open.
```

![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/incorrect-company-open.png "Connector, Incorrect Company Open")

> The user can then remove the erroneously approved connection via the `Edit > Preferences > Integrated Applications > Company Preferences` modal, open the correct company file and proceed as seen in flow 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can remove the erroneously approved connection by navigating to `Edit > Preferences > Integrated Applications > Company Preferences`  in the QuickBooks Desktop application, opening the correct company file, and [approving the connector's access to it](/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/certificate-update#1-the-quickbooks-desktop-application-is-open-with-the-connected-company-file).
```

> ##### 2.2.2 Denying access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Denied access
```

> If the user incorrectly denies access to the company, QuickBooks Desktop will not be permitted access to the company and the requested operation will not succeed until the correct company is opened, and the steps seen in flow 2 are completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user incorrectly denies the connector's company file access request, QuickBooks Desktop will not complete the requested operation until the user opens the correct company and [authorizes the connector's access to it](/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/certificate-update#1-the-quickbooks-desktop-application-is-open-with-the-connected-company-file).
```

> If the user wishes, they can clean up the connection via the `Edit > Preferences > Integrated Applications > Company Preferences` modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can also remove the connection by navigating to `Edit > Preferences > Integrated Applications > Company Preferences` in the QuickBooks Desktop application.
```

> #### 2.3 The QuickBooks Desktop application is closed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The next time the connector attempts to access the file, QuickBooks will open a prompt for the user to interact with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The UI will display an error message saying `Timed out attempting to communicate with QBD.` This is because the connector cannot initiate communication with QBD as QBD is not open, and even if the user had previously granted permission to access QBD whilst QBD was not running, this permissioning does not transfer to the new certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![Image](/img/integrations/accounting/quickbooksdesktop/timed-out.png "Timed Out")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The user will have to launch QuickBooks Desktop, open the correct company file and approve access, at which point they will be prompted to approve access and can proceed with the steps as seen in flow 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Note: This prompt may take a few moments to appear, but can be triggered by clicking the `Perform Sync` button in the Connector UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
